https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4892579/how-to-convert-a-char-to-binary/4892655
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8634527/converting-binary-data-to-characters-in-java/8635037
https://www.baeldung.com/java-print-binary-tree-diagram

Ethan Shahan Project 2 Huffman Coding
Lab: 17 Tues/Thursday 4:50-6:05

Contact Info:
    Email: eshahan@u.rochester.edu

Code Explanation:
    The main functions of this code are contained within the methods encode and decode, as dictated by the Huffman.java interface. 
    
    The encode method takes an input file and uses it to generate a frequency file containing the number of occurances of each unique (8-bit) character in the input file. This frequency file is then used to generate a Huffman tree by funneling each chatacter into a minuimun priority queue, using a character's frequency to determine its priority in the queue; the tree is then generated by progressively combining the smallest nodes in the PQ under a new parent node and adding that node back into the PQ, eventually resulting in only the root node of the tree remaining in the PQ. This Huffman tree is then used to create prefix-free codes to represent compressed versions of the characters listed in the frequency file. These prefix-free codes are then used to encode all the characters in the original input file, which are then written to a compressed output file. 

    The decode method works by taking an encoded input file and a frequency file from the original input file pre-encoding. It uses this frequency file to generate a Huffman tree using the same process the encoding method utilizes. This huffman tree is then used to expand each of the encoded characters in the input file by using their prefix-free codes to traverse the tree until a leaf containing the character they represent if found. These characters are then written to a new decoded output file.
    
    For extra credit I included methods that write string representations of the priority queues and the trees branching off of them as the are being created to a text file tree.txt. Once written to, this file shows a visual representation of the Huffman trees being created at every step of the process as the nodes in the PQ are combined. 

Compile and Run Information:
    To test the encode and decode methods, file names do need to be hardcoded into the methods called in the main method (sorry Aayush). Examples of this are given in the comments of the main method.

    From the commandline, inside the directory of the project:
        ...\Project2> javac *.java
        ...\Project2> java Project2.HuffmanSubmit
        // this assumes that the set classpath extends to the directory that precedes the package Project2

Citations:
    // used for general backbone of Huffman coding
    “5.5 Data Compression.” Algorithms, by Robert Sedgewick and Kevin Daniel Wayne, Fourth Edition ed., Addison-Wesley, 2011, pp. 826–838.
    
    // used to help convert binary bytes to chars
    jaychapani. “Converting Binary Data to Characters in Java.” Stack Overflow, Stack Exchange Inc, 26 Dec. 2011, stackoverflow.com/questions/8634527/converting-binary-data-to-characters-in-java/8635037. 

    // used to help create visual representation of trees
    Tas, Yavuz. “How to Print a Binary Tree Diagram.” Baeldung, Baeldung, 19 Feb. 2020, www.baeldung.com/java-print-binary-tree-diagram. 

    // used to help convert chars to binary bytes
    Vasconcelos, Murilo. "How to Convert a Char to Binary?" Stack Overflow, Stack Exchange Inc, 3 Feb. 2011, stackoverflow.com/questions/4892579/how-to-convert-a-char-to-binary/4892655.  
